---
layout: post
title:  "Vim"
date:   2018-03-05 18:00:00
categories: wiki
tags: [linux,vim]
lang: en
ref: vim
description: Bits about Vim
img: https://source.unsplash.com/w7ZyuGYNpRQ
img-ref: https://unsplash.com/photos/w7ZyuGYNpRQ
---

[Vim](vim) is a text editor based into keyboard shortcuts and modes. It has a stepper learning curve but, once you learn it enables very fast shortcuts for most common uses. It took me a couple hours to get used with most of the basics commands. It does provide a very fast way to perform all the common typing operations. You can customize as much you want with plugins and vim programming language. If you start to use, be certain: you will never stop to learn new features. This post is just a collection of some of cool features thay I learned. If want learn more check [Vim Wikia](https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Vim_Tips_Wiki).

## First things first - How to close

Yeah! The first major obstacle is the two most basic things edit and quit.

 * Force Quit: Press `ESC` then type `:q!`
 * Save File and Quit: Press `ESC` then type `:x!`

## Insert Text from file at Cursor position

It very stratfoward just type

```
:r secretSauce.txt
```

## Open Several Files from terminal

```
$ vim -p *.md
```

## Search and Replace - AKA Vim Regex

Probably the thing that I use most is its search powered by [Regex](regex). The sintax is very similar to [sed](sed) witch is also a Regex based editor.

```
:%s/badWord/goodWord/g
```

### Grouping

Group are one the coolest features from regex. It enables using part of maching search expression as argument for replacement. In other worlds, you can change any expression for a fix format, ensure a default format, add things between worlds. 

### Changing Case

Ensure only First Letter with Upper Case for each world.
```
:%s/\([a-z]\)\([a-zA-Z]*\)/\U\1\L/gc
```

Change from dash separated words (aaa_bbb) to cammelCase (aaaBbb)
```
:%s/([a-za-z]*\)_/\([a-z]\)\([a-z]*_\)\L\1\U\2\L3/gc
```

