---
layout: post
title:  "S.O.L Ex Guide"
date:   2015-01-01 18:00:00
categories: journal
tags: [game]
lang: en
ref: game-guide-solex
description: A new page has been born !
img:
img-ref:
---

[S.O.L Ex]() is a offline RPG game. 

## Itens

All Weapons and Armor itens are random generated by each market every time you open. So the best way to get a better item is close and open a couple times until you find some rare item. They all are generate based on your level, this enable to come back to the same market over and over to get better items. Sell any item that you get that is not rare or legendary.

### Armor and Weapons

I usually keep a couple class weapons powered by some element.

### Runes and Slots

Runes add some effect on armor or weapons. Each iten can have from 0 up to 3 slots. The amount increased by rune rulel is not well balanced.

#### Fire, Water, Earth and Wind Runes

Thoses are the easiest way to get more powerful attacks in the beggining of the game. Crafting some runes can give you great damage improvement. 

#### Life Runes

The max life stelling amoung is 10. Wich does not offer much help when have more then 1k life points. It is a lot easier to recover

### Potions

Potions are great to fast recovery in the middle of caos. They have a quite long cooldown time so you should always bring one that give you the best amount of recovery.

Small live potions are great for the beging since they are cheaper but after while you defitley should pick middle size recovery potions. The major difference that life potions recover a fixed amount and recovery potions guive you back a percentage from your total.

#### Spirit Runes

The max mana stilling amoung is also 10 but most magics cost less then 100 points. This make spirit runes a lot more useful then life runes.

#### Gold Runes

Since is quite easy to get itens and sell I did see any advantage in thoses.

## Combat Tips

Dodge is the major hability to have. Every monster in this game give tips when is about to attack and most of then give huge damage compare to your level. If you want survive long enough just Do Not get hit.

Any class can use any weapon. But the best switched weapon for that class will give the most damage. Only mage weapons are long range. All other are mellee. That makes mage is overpowered on this game. At the end of the day every class will play mage no matter wich class have you chose.

You can stop in the middle of the game and change your equipment any time. That enable to switch to the best weapon combination for each enemy. I usualy keep a mage weapon for tough mellee enemies and some rune powered class weapon for everything else.

### Magic

All class are hable to use all spells. They can be one of 4 kinds: projectile, shild, area damage or temporary power up.

### Projectile 

They usualy take around 3s to load so make sure to start it from some distance. You can stack multiple attacks by hit it before the projectile desapier.

### Wind Shild

This is a very overpowered magic. It creates a shild around that makes 1 hit/s at anything nearby creating massive damage when you surround by enemies. The downside is that take 4s to charge and least only a couple seconds.

### Area Damage

They are great for huges amounts of enemies but they take longer to charge.

## Flags Events

Every week has an event. There are 5 levels to beat. 


